	
Telnet
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Not to be confused with Telenet.
	This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2014) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

Telnet is a protocol used on the Internet or local area networks to provide a bidirectional interactive text-oriented communication facility using a virtual terminal connection. User data is interspersed in-band with Telnet control information in an 8-bit byte oriented data connection over the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP).

Telnet was developed in 1969 beginning with RFC 15, extended in RFC 854, and standardized as Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Internet Standard STD 8, one of the first Internet standards. The name stands for "teletype network".[1][2]

Historically, Telnet provided access to a command-line interface (usually, of an operating system) on a remote host, including most network equipment and operating systems with a configuration utility (including systems based on Windows NT).[clarification needed] However, because of serious security concerns when using Telnet over an open network such as the Internet, its use for this purpose has waned significantly in favor of SSH.

The term telnet is also used to refer to the software that implements the client part of the protocol. Telnet client applications are available for virtually all computer platforms. Telnet is also used as a verb. To telnet means to establish a connection using the Telnet protocol, either with command line client or with a programmatic interface. For example, a common directive might be: "To change your password, telnet into the server, log in and run the passwd command." Most often, a user will be telnetting to a Unix-like server system or a network device (such as a router) and obtaining a login prompt to a command line text interface or a character-based full-screen manager.
Internet protocol suite
Application layer

    BGP DHCP DNS FTP HTTP IMAP LDAP MGCP NNTP NTP POP ONC/RPC RTP RTSP RIP SIP SMTP SNMP SSH Telnet TLS/SSL XMPP more... 

Transport layer

    TCP UDP DCCP SCTP RSVP more... 

Internet layer

    IP
        IPv4 IPv6 ICMP ICMPv6 ECN IGMP IPsec more... 

Link layer

    ARP NDP OSPF Tunnels
        L2TP PPP MAC
        Ethernet DSL ISDN FDDI more... 

    v t e 

Contents

    1 History and standards
    2 Security
    3 Telnet 5250
    4 Telnet data
    5 Related RFCs
        5.1 Internet Standards
        5.2 Proposed Standards
        5.3 Informational/experimental
        5.4 Other RFCs
    6 Telnet clients
    7 See also
    8 References
    9 External links

History and standards

Telnet is a client-server protocol, based on a reliable connection-oriented transport. Typically, this protocol is used to establish a connection to Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) port number 23, where a Telnet server application (telnetd) is listening. Telnet, however, predates TCP/IP and was originally run over Network Control Program (NCP) protocols.

Even though Telnet was an ad hoc protocol with no official definition until March 5, 1973,[3] the name actually referred to Teletype Over Network Protocol as the RFC 206 (NIC 7176) on Telnet makes the connection clear:[4]

    The TELNET protocol is based upon the notion of a virtual teletype, employing a 7-bit ASCII character set. The primary function of a User TELNET, then, is to provide the means by which its users can 'hit' all the keys on that virtual teletype.[5]

Essentially, it used an 8-bit channel to exchange 7-bit ASCII data. Any byte with the high bit set was a special Telnet character. On March 5, 1973, a Telnet protocol standard was defined at UCLA[6] with the publication of two NIC documents: Telnet Protocol Specification, NIC 15372, and Telnet Option Specifications, NIC 15373.

Many extensions were made for Telnet because of its negotiable options protocol architecture. Some of these extensions have been adopted as Internet standards, IETF documents STD 27 through STD 32. Some extensions have been widely implemented and others are proposed standards on the IETF standards track (see below) Telnet is best understood in the context of a user with a simple terminal using the local Telnet program (known as the client program) to run a logon session on a remote computer where the user's communications needs are handled by a Telnet server program.
Security
	This section does not cite any sources. Please help improve this section by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (April 2010) (Learn how and when to remove this template message)

When Telnet was initially developed in 1969, most users of networked computers were in the computer departments of academic institutions, or at large private and government research facilities. In this environment, security was not nearly as much a concern as it became after the bandwidth explosion of the 1990s. The rise in the number of people with access to the Internet, and by extension the number of people attempting to hack other people's servers, made encrypted alternatives necessary.

Experts in computer security, such as SANS Institute, recommend that the use of Telnet for remote logins should be discontinued under all normal circumstances, for the following reasons:

    Telnet, by default, does not encrypt any data sent over the connection (including passwords), and so it is often feasible to eavesdrop on the communications and use the password later for malicious purposes; anybody who has access to a router, switch, hub or gateway located on the network between the two hosts where Telnet is being used can intercept the packets passing by and obtain login, password and whatever else is typed with a packet analyzer.
    Most implementations of Telnet have no authentication that would ensure communication is carried out between the two desired hosts and not intercepted in the middle.
    Several vulnerabilities have been discovered over the years in commonly used Telnet daemons.

These security-related shortcomings have seen the usage of the Telnet protocol drop rapidly,[7] especially on the public Internet, in favor of the Secure Shell (SSH) protocol, first released in 1995. SSH has practically replaced Telnet, and the older protocol is used these days only in rare cases to access decades old legacy equipment that does not support more modern protocols.[8] SSH provides much of the functionality of telnet, with the addition of strong encryption to prevent sensitive data such as passwords from being intercepted, and public key authentication, to ensure that the remote computer is actually who it claims to be. As has happened with other early Internet protocols, extensions to the Telnet protocol provide Transport Layer Security (TLS) security and Simple Authentication and Security Layer (SASL) authentication that address the above concerns. However, most Telnet implementations do not support these extensions; and there has been relatively little interest in implementing these as SSH is adequate for most purposes.

It is of note that there are a large number of industrial and scientific devices which have only Telnet available as a communication option. Some are built with only a standard RS-232 port and use a serial server hardware appliance to provide the translation between the TCP/Telnet data and the RS-232 serial data. In such cases, SSH is not an option unless the interface appliance can be configured for SSH.
Telnet 5250

IBM 5250 or 3270 workstation emulation is supported via custom telnet clients, TN5250/TN3270, and IBM servers. Clients and servers designed to pass IBM 5250 data streams over Telnet generally do support SSL encryption, as SSH does not include 5250 emulation. Under OS/400 (also known as IBM i), port 992 is the default port for secured telnet.[9]
Telnet data

All data octets except 0xff are transmitted over Telnet as is. (0xff, or 255 in decimal, is the IAC byte (Interpret As Command) which signals that the next byte is a telnet command. The command to insert 0xff into the stream is 0xff, so 0xff need to be escaped by doubling it when sending data over the telnet protocol.) Therefore, a Telnet client application may also be used to establish an interactive raw TCP session, and it is commonly believed that such session which does not use the IAC is functionally identical.[citation needed] This is not the case, however, because there are other network virtual terminal (NVT) rules, such as the requirement for a bare carriage return character (CR, ASCII 13) to be followed by a NUL (ASCII 0) character, that distinguish the telnet protocol from raw TCP sessions.[clarification needed] On the other hand, many systems now possess true raw TCP clients, such as netcat or socat on UNIX and PuTTY on Windows, which also can be used to manually "talk" to other services without specialized client software. Nevertheless, Telnet is still sometimes used in debugging network services such as SMTP, IRC, HTTP, FTP or POP3 servers, to issue commands to a server and examine the responses, but of all these protocols only FTP really uses Telnet data format.

Another difference of Telnet from a raw TCP session is that Telnet is not 8-bit clean by default. 8-bit mode may be negotiated, but high-bit-set octets may be garbled until this mode was requested, and it obviously will not be requested in non-Telnet connection. The 8-bit mode (so named binary option) is intended to transmit binary data, not characters though. The standard suggests the interpretation of codes 0000–0176 as ASCII, but does not offer any meaning for high-bit-set data octets. There was an attempt to introduce a switchable character encoding support like HTTP has,[10] but nothing is known about its actual software support.
Related RFCs
Internet Standards

    RFC 854, Telnet Protocol Specification
    RFC 855, Telnet Option Specifications
    RFC 856, Telnet Binary Transmission
    RFC 857, Telnet Echo Option
    RFC 858, Telnet Suppress Go Ahead Option
    RFC 859, Telnet Status Option
    RFC 860, Telnet Timing Mark Option
    RFC 861, Telnet Extended Options: List Option

Proposed Standards

    RFC 885, Telnet end of record option
    RFC 1073, Telnet Window Size Option
    RFC 1079, Telnet terminal speed option
    RFC 1091, Telnet terminal-type option
    RFC 1096, Telnet X display location option
    RFC 1123, Requirements for Internet Hosts - Application and Support
    RFC 1184, Telnet Linemode Option
    RFC 1372, Telnet Remote Flow Control Option
    RFC 1572, Telnet Environment Option
    RFC 2941, Telnet Authentication Option
    RFC 2942, Telnet Authentication: Kerberos Version 5
    RFC 2943, TELNET Authentication Using DSA
    RFC 2944, Telnet Authentication: SRP
    RFC 2946, Telnet Data Encryption Option
    RFC 4248, The telnet URI Scheme

Informational/experimental

    RFC 1143, The Q Method of Implementing TELNET Option Negotiation
    RFC 1571, Telnet Environment Option Interoperability Issues

Other RFCs

    RFC 1041, Telnet 3270 regime option
    RFC 1205, 5250 Telnet interface
    RFC 2217, Telnet Com Port Control Option
    RFC 4777, IBM's iSeries Telnet Enhancements

Telnet clients

    PuTTY is a free, open-source SSH, Telnet, rlogin, and raw TCP client for Windows, Linux, and Unix.
    AbsoluteTelnet is a telnet client for Windows. It also supports SSH and SFTP,
    RUMBA (Terminal Emulator)
    Line Mode Browser, a command line web browser
    NCSA Telnet
    TeraTerm
    SecureCRT from Van Dyke Software
    ZOC Terminal
    SyncTERM BBS terminal program supporting Telnet, SSHv2, RLogin, Serial, Windows, *nix, and Mac OS X platforms, X/Y/ZMODEM and various BBS terminal emulations
    NetRunner BBS telnet client for ANSI-BBS. Uses a modern SDL2-based emulation engine to provide very accurate and clear emulation of DOS and Amiga systems. Available for Linux and Windows.
    PowerTerm InterConnect from Ericom available for Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Windows CE and supports 35 terminal emulation types including TN3270, TN5250, VT420, Wyse and others with SSH and SSL.
    Rtelnet is a SOCKS client version of Telnet, providing similar functionality of telnet to those hosts which are behind firewall and NAT.
    Inetutils includes a telnet client and server and is installed by default on many GNU/Linux distributions.

See also

    Virtual terminal
    Reverse telnet
    HyTelnet
    Kermit
    SSH

References

Andrew Wheen. Dot-dash to Dot.Com: How Modern Telecommunications Evolved from the Telegraph to the Internet. Springer, 2011. p. 132. ISBN 9781441967596.
Christoph Meinel; Harald Sack. Internetworking: Technological Foundations and Applications. X.media.publishing, 2013. p. 57. ISBN 3642353916.
RFC 318 — documentation of old ad hoc telnet protocol
Garth O. Bruen. WHOIS Running the Internet: Protocol, Policy, and Privacy. Wiley, 1st edition (November 2, 2015). p. 25. ISBN 9781118679555.
The RFC 206 (NIC 7176), 9 August 1971; Computer Research Lab, UCSB; J. White.
RFC 495 — announcement of Telnet protocol
Poulsen, Kevin (2 April 2007). "Telnet, dead at 35...RIP". Wired. April 2007 (2007-04): 24. Retrieved 14 June 2017.
Ylonen, Tatu. "History of the SSH Protocol". SSH home page. SSH Communications Security, Inc. Retrieved 14 June 2017.
"IBM TCP/IP Ports Required for Access for Windows and Related Functions - United States". www-01.ibm.com. IBM Technote.

    RFC 2066 — TELNET CHARSET Option

External links

    Telnet Options — the official list of assigned option numbers at iana.org
    Telnet Interactions Described as a Sequence Diagram
    Telnet protocol description, with NVT reference
    Microsoft TechNet:Telnet commands
    TELNET: The Mother of All (Application) Protocols
    Troubleshoot Telnet Errors in Windows Operating System

Categories:

    Application layer protocolsClear text protocolsComputer-related introductions in 1969History of the InternetInternet Protocol based network softwareInternet protocolsInternet StandardsRemote administration softwareUnix network-related softwareURI schemes

Navigation menu

    Not logged in
    Talk
    Contributions
    Create account
    Log in

    Article
    Talk

    Read
    Edit
    View history

Search

    Main page
    Contents
    Featured content
    Current events
    Random article
    Donate to Wikipedia
    Wikipedia store

Interaction

    Help
    About Wikipedia
    Community portal
    Recent changes
    Contact page

Tools

    What links here
    Related changes
    Upload file
    Special pages
    Permanent link
    Page information
    Wikidata item
    Cite this page

Print/export

    Create a book
    Download as PDF
    Printable version

In other projects

    Wikimedia Commons

Languages

    Afrikaans
    العربية
    Azərbaycanca
    Български
    Bosanski
    Català
    Čeština
    Dansk
    Deutsch
    Eesti
    Ελληνικά
    Español
    Esperanto
    Euskara
    فارسی
    Français
    Gaeilge
    Galego
    한국어
    हिन्दी
    Hrvatski
    Bahasa Indonesia
    Italiano
    עברית
    ქართული
    Kurdî
    Latviešu
    Magyar
    Македонски
    മലയാളം
    Монгол
    Nederlands
    日本語
    Norsk
    Polski
    Português
    Română
    Русский
    Scots
    Shqip
    Simple English
    Slovenčina
    Slovenščina
    Српски / srpski
    Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
    Suomi
    Svenska
    தமிழ்
    ไทย
    Türkçe
    Українська
    Tiếng Việt
    Yorùbá
    中文

Edit links

    This page was last edited on 26 August 2017, at 07:13.
    Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

    Privacy policy
    About Wikipedia
    Disclaimers
    Contact Wikipedia
    Developers
    Cookie statement
    Mobile view

    Wikimedia Foundation	
    Powered by MediaWiki	

